# Section 2B Smart Sukuk on HLC public chain
One important application in Islamic capital markets for blockchain is the sukuk (Islamic bonds) market. Sukuk are securitized, and hence tradable on secondary markets much like a stock can be traded on a stock exchange. Islamic finance prohibits interest payments on loans and the sale of debt; Sukuk markets evolved to securitize Islamic modes of financing such as profit sharing through asset ownership for a given tenure.
Sukuk has been a popular approach for governments seeking to finance infrastructure projects, but the legal complexity and overall cost to issue sukuk has kept it out of reach for smaller corporations and MSMEs. It has been an excellent way to raise much needed capital, but investors have also been always restricted to the much larger institutional investors due to the high barrier of entry, which usually starts in the millions. However, the inability to lower these barriers of entry at the retail level to thousands or hundreds of dollars to enable wider participation (and access to more funds) for sukuk participation, and hence wider risk and profit-sharing in the Islamic capital market, is still persistent and remains an impediment to true shared prosperity.

## Sukuk investment: An Ethical Investment For  stable  Returns

According to IFSB 9 (IFSB, 2007) Sukuk commonly refers to the Islamic bonds. However, as opposed to conventional bonds, which merely confer ownership of a debt, Sukuk grants the investor a share of an asset, along with the commensurate cash flows and risk. As such, Sukuk securities adhere to Islamic law, referred to as Shari’ah principles, which prohibit the charging or payment of interest.

Put simply, Sukuk instruments act as a bridge. They link their issuers, primarily sovereigns and corporations in the Middle East and Southeast Asia, with a wide pool of investors, many of whom are seeking to diversify their holdings beyond traditional asset classes. In this way, funds raised through Sukuk can be allocated in an efficient and transparent way to infrastructure initiatives and other deserving projects linked directly to the real economy sector.

Development of Traditional Sukuk market 
2017 ended on an optimistic note for the global Sukuk market. There were relatively higher commodity prices (particularly of oil), a gradual rise of reference rates, and a marked increase in Sovereign Sukuk issuances, stable Corporate Sukuk issuances in certain jurisdictions and a healthy Sukuk issuance pipeline. Sukuk continued to gain attention from new issuers while the investor base expanded, which is an encouraging development. During the year, Sukuk were issued as a viable alternative source of financing for infrastructure development, aircraft financing, project financing, corporate general purpose needs, capital adequacy and budgetary requirements. Other interesting developments are the issuance of Green Sukuk and increased interest in SRI Sukuk issuances.

The year’s landmark event was Saudi Arabia’s entry as a sovereign Sukuk issuer. The country’s first issuance was the largest international Sukuk issuance ever of USD 9 billion, followed by several sovereign domestic Sukuk issuances. The other new sovereign issuer was Nigeria with the country’s domestic issuance being around USD 312 million. In addition, continued interest from well established sovereign, quasi sovereign and financial institutions issuers such as the Governments of Bahrain, Indonesia, Turkey, Pakistan, Oman, Hong Kong, Investment Corporation of Dubai, and Islamic Development Bank has kept the Sukuk market active. New issuers, such as Saudi Arabia, have helped keep the growth trajectory of Sukuk issuance intact.


Global Sukuk Issuances
Total global issuance amounted to USD 116.7 billion in 2017. As illustrated in Chart 1 below, global Sukuk issuance has increased from USD 87.9 billion in 2016 to USD 116.7 billion in 2017, an impressive jump of around 32% in volume. The increase in volume during 2017 was mainly due to sovereign Sukuk issuances by Saudi Arabia coupled with steady issuances from Asia, GCC, Africa and certain other jurisdictions. Malaysia continues to dominate the Sukuk market, though shares from countries like Indonesia, the UAE and to some extent from Turkey, are close behind in value.

Insert Diagram or Table 
